Added icon policy documentation (#178)
bitcoin-core/gui: src/qt/res/README.md

# Icon policy
This document provides guidelines for contributing icons to Bitcoin Core.

## Preparing Icons
Both an icon source file, in Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) format, and an optimized production file, in Portable Network Graphics (PNG) format, are required for 
each icon.

#### SVG Source File

> SVGs are used as source files because they can scale while retaining image quality, but are not used in production due to limited application support.

Reviewer: the comma isn't actually needed here

```suggestion
SVGs are used as source files because they can scale while retaining image quality but are not used in production due to limited application support.

```

> In the event that different-sized production (PNG) icons are required, they can be generated from the associated SVG source file in a vector-based tool such as:

Reviewer: nit, the sentence can be simplified a bit here
```suggestion
If different-sized production (PNG) icons are required, they can be generated from the associated SVG source file in a vector-based tool such as:

```

> Inkspace, Adobe Illustrator, Figma, Sketch, or Adobe XD.

Reviewer 2: Let's remove non-free software from this list. It would be annoying if we had SVGs that only render correctly in them.

Author: From experience SVGs exported from all of this tools are the same and interoperable. Happy to remove the adobe products though, most designers use Figma (which is free) these days anyways.

Reviewer: I don't think we HAVE to remove the non-free tools, but maybe mention that Figma is the preferred tool?

Reviewer 2: Figma is non-free and definitely not preferred...

Actually, the preferred tool (rsvg-convert) isn't even listed right now!

Reviewer 3: I would suggest dropping "such as: Inkspace, Adobe Illustrator, Figma, Sketch, or Adobe XD" to avoid update maintenance and review effort over time on this.

Author: Figma is free, the paid version is only for a few extra features that do not pertain to SVG rendering. It is the preferred tool among designers (who I was pointing to in this doc as they are usually the ones who hand on the file to developers in a production sense). 

@jonatack I agree, tools come and go - it's easy enough to google and use any vector tool you wish, will make this change.

For some reference here is some info around UX/UI tools usage - https://uxtools.co/survey-2020/.

Reviewer 2: "Free" deals with source code and licensing terms, NOT money (you're thinking "free of charge").

#### PNG Production File

> PNGs are used in production due to wide application support, transparency support, and better image quality in comparison to competing file types

Reviewer: nit, s/in comparison/compared
```suggestion
PNGs are used in production due to wide application support, transparency support, and better image quality compared to competing file types

```

such as JPEG.

### Icon Grid

> Bitcoin Core uses an 8-point grid system for its icons which utilizes size increments of 8px to visually orientate elements within a grid. The majority of screen sizes are divisible by 8 which makes fitting elements easier using an 8-point grid system. This makes things more efficient for designers and maintains consistency across applications. 

Reviewer: needs a comma, adding 'system' makes the antecedent clearer
```suggestion
Bitcoin Core uses an 8-point grid system for its icons which utilizes size increments of 8px to visually orientate elements within a grid. The majority of screen sizes are divisible by 8, which makes fitting elements easier using an 8-point grid system. This system makes things more efficient for designers and maintains consistency across applications. 

```

### Icon Style
Icon style should adhere to the following principles to maintain consistency and clarity:

- To ensure icons look good at any scale, a minimalistic design should be used.  

> - Icon size should be 32x32px by default. A different sized icon may be necessary under special circumstances. In the event that the 32x32px size is too small for the required icon placement, then the icon should be scaled up or down while adhering to the 8-point grid system.

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
- Icon size should be 32x32px by default. A different sized icon may be necessary under special circumstances. If the 32x32px size is too small for the required icon placement, then the icon should be scaled up or down while adhering to the 8-point grid system.

```

> - Icon should avoid organic shapes or elements, these do not scale well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The icon should avoid organic shapes or elements; these do not scale well.

```

- Colors should be consistent with existing Bitcoin Core icons. 
- Icons should adhere to the 8-point grid system (see above). 

### Optimizing Production Files (PNG): 

> Production (PNG) files must be optimized before their inclusion in Bitcoin Core. PNG optimization removes various unnecessary color profiles, ancillary (alla), and text chunks resulting in a lossless reduction of the file's size. Any `zopflipng` / `pngcrush` based PNG optimizer can be used. Below are some examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Production (PNG) files must be optimized before their inclusion in Bitcoin Core. PNG optimization removes various unnecessary color profiles, ancillary (alla), and text chunks, resulting in a lossless reduction of the file's size. Any `zopflipng` / `pngcrush` based PNG optimizer can be used. Below are some examples:

```

- Open source tool [ImageOptim](https://imageoptim.com/api).
- Open source tool [Trimage](https://trimage.org/).

> - (Advanced) Run them through Bitcoin Core's [optimize-png.py](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoin-maintainer-tools/blob/master/optimise-pngs.py) script.

Reviewer 4: I'd say it is a requirement for any image to be added to this repo to be cleaned and compressed deterministically via this script.

Author: Is there a way this script could be run on images automatically as they are added to the repo? The result between the 3 tools should be the same (they all use zopflippng / pngcrush). The only reason I added ImageOptim and Trimage is so designers can do this task if they wish - some may not have the technical skills to use the python script.

Reviewer: @Bosch-0 it seems like the best thing to do here is to include a small guide on processing images through the included script before inclusion into the repo

## Contributing
Icons are to be added to Bitcoin Core, via a pull request (PR), under these circumstances:

- An icon used in production is being replaced with a new icon.
- A feature is being added to the Bitcoin Core GUI that requires the addition of a new icon.

> If a new icon is designed for an upcoming or active PR, the designer of the icon should [open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/gui/issues/new/choose) to get feedback on the design and to make sure it is consistent with Bitcoin Core's iconography.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this needs an extra issue independent from the PR using it?

Author: Posting an issue would be for requesting an icon be desgined to fit the PR (if the dev who did the PR is not also a designer). Though I guess this could be coordinated over IRC or other channels.

Reviewer 5: I think it's useful to indicate under what conditions icons can be added to Bitcoin Core

> If a new icon is designed for an upcoming or active PR, the designer of the icon should [open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/gui/issues/new/choose) to get feedback on the design and to make sure it is consistent with Bitcoin Core's iconography.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a new icon is designed for an upcoming or active PR, the icon designer should [open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/gui/issues/new/choose) to get feedback on the design and make sure it is consistent with Bitcoin Core's iconography.

```

> If a new feature which requires a new icon is being added to the Bitcoin Core GUI, the developer should [open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/gui/issues/new/choose) requesting the new icon be designed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a new feature is being added which requires a new icon, the developer should [open an issue](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/gui/issues/new/choose) requesting the new icon be designed. 

```

Icons, both SVG and PNG, are not to be added to Bitcoin Core prior to a production use case.

> When opening a PR that intends to add an icon, a SVG source file must be included under `src/qt/res/src`, and a optimized production file (PNG) must be included under `src/qt/res/icons`. Both source and production files should be 32x32px in size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When opening a PR that intends to add an icon, an SVG source file must be included under `src/qt/res/src`, and an optimized production file (PNG) must be included under `src/qt/res/icons`. Both source and production files should be 32x32px in size.

```

> ## Attribution 

Reviewer 6: https://cirrus-ci.com/task/5544742043779072?command=lint#L949
```suggestion
## Attribution
```
